# 4. Setting a Grid Data Source

Every grid needs data to display.

Hyva_Admin grids try to make it as simple as possible to take existing data and display it in a grid.


Sources can be different types. Currently Hyva_Admin supports the following grid source types:

* Array Grid Provider
* Repository Grid Provider
* Collection Grid Provider


The provider is configured in the grid XML file in a `<source>` element.

The child element determines the type of provider


To set an array provider, use the `<arrayProvider>` element:

```markup
<source>
    <arrayProvider>\Hyva\AdminTest\Model\LogFileListProvider</arrayProvider>
</source>
```

Array providers have to implement the interface `\Hyva\Admin\Api\HyvaGridArrayProviderInterface`.

More details on array providers can be found in the PHP Class API reference documentation.


To set a repository provider, use the `<repositoryListMethod>` element:

```markup
<source>
    <repositoryListMethod>\Magento\Customer\Api\CustomerRepositoryInterface::getList</repositoryListMethod>
</source>
```

The name of the method doesn’t have to be `getList`. The important thing here is that the specified method takes a `\Magento\Framework\Api\SearchCriteriaInterface` as an argument, and returns a `\Magento\Framework\Api\SearchResultsInterface` like thing.

In the core code convention is to name these methods `getList`, but you can use whatever name you want on custom repositories, as long as the input and output are the same.


Finally there is the collection provider. It is specified with the collection element:

```markup
<source>
    <collection>\Magento\Customer\Model\ResourceModel\Customer\Collection</collection>
</source>
```

The collection has to be a DB collection, because that is how the sorting, paging and filtering is applied. That said, more basic collections are very rare, so most should “just work”.


### Future provider types:

One more provider is planned, which is a query provider, so database tables can be configured as a grid data source directly, without the need to create intermediate PHP classes.


More grid providers will hopefully be added, too, as the need arrises.


If you implement a grid provider you find useful, please open a merge request!